- [Instructor] Now let us take a look at the ServletContext
API, as opposed to ServletConfig, the ServletContext API
will be used to pass configuration information for the
entire application, as in, if you want to share any
information across all the Servlets of your application
then you need to grab the ServletContext object.
Now for the ServletContext object as well, there will
be parameters defined and they will be defined in the
deployment descriptor which is our webXML file.
Now please note that since it is for the entire application
these parameters wouldn't be attached to a particular
Servlet but they'd be attached to the entire app.
The parameters like your Servlet configure again in the
form of key-value pair and always of the type String.
There's always one ServletContext object for the entire
application, this is not going to be for every Servlet
basis but it's going to be as an application basis.
So lets try this out in the demo, we go to our getServlet,
let me get rid of this annotation because I've already
defined this getServlet in the webXML.
And what we are going to do is, lets go to the webXML,
this is that web application root tag and I'm not going
to define the context parameters for the entire web app.
So, the way we attached init-parameters for a specific
Servlet for servletconfig, the init parameters for
the context will not be for a servlet but will be within
this web-app directly.
So let me hold on and on line number 20 I'm going to put
that configuration, I'm going to say, context-param, that's
the element that will allow you to define the context init
parameters.
Under this you have two more tags, param name and
param value.
Lets take an example to code this out, lets say all your
servlets are going to connect to the database, so they need
the database URL, right?
The database URL is available in our project, in the DBC
connection class, if you see on line number 19, the first
argument that we're exactly past is the database sub URL.
And instead of hard coding this into classes like that,
we could actually take this and put it as a context
parameter so that it will be available to all the servlets
within the application, so I'm going to give a name to this
parameter, saying DB URL, lets call is dbURL and the value
will be the entire URL.
Now what we could do is fetch this parameter in our servlet,
so let me go to getservlet and you're going to fetch this
parameters, now using the servlet context object, so lets
take a reference for it first.
There it is, and how are we going to opt-in this object?
So the way you have a getServletConfig similarly in the
HttpServlet class you have a getServlet context API, which
is this.
So by that we can get the context object and then we'll
put a small sys out again, which is going to fetch that
init parameters and we're going to say context dot get init
parameter and I'm going to fill the name of the parameter
so lets go to webXML, take the name of the parameter
on line number 21, go to the getServlet again, and paste it
on line number 21, right.
So that's how we'll be able to fetch the context information
inside the servlet, now please note that since the servlet
context is one per application, if you go to any other
servlet in your app you will get this value of the
parameter, right, so lets run this and check out the
changes, let me hit the gerServlet.
Yeah, I got a response and lets now check on the console.
There we go, so we have been able to get the database URL
fetched through the servletContext object this time inside
our servlet, so, please note that context parameters are
always defined inside the web app tab directly, they're not
attached to any servlet and since they are not attached to
any servlet, you wouldn't have a way to put the annotation
configuration for the servlet context.